**Review of WatFit : Human Values** 

The WatFit mobile application is designed to allow its users to track their dietary intake, and exercise habits as well as record certain body measurements. By tracking this data, the app will be able to calculate the user’s calorie surplus or deficit, summarize past activities, compare changes in the user’s physical body dimensions and make future projections regarding the user’s weight based on their current habits. The app will also help develop future fitness plans, and diets for the user. Overall, the app will be used by anyone who wants to monitor and manage their nutrition and physical activity, and even potentially share their results. 

The user population would include anyone who downloads the app and uses it to manage and track their nutritional and physical habits, to develop a healthier lifestyle. This could be any member of the public that wishes to manage and improve their health. 

Certain user populations could be harmed by the use of this app. Any users who download and use this app who have eating disorders or body dysmorphia could be potentially harmed by the use of this app. These users who may have obsessive eating disorders can be affected negatively, both mentally and physically. Using WatFit to meticulously track calories and logging their entire diet may worsen their relationship with food as obsessive calorie counting can become counterproductive in one’s fitness journey, especially when people begin to starve themselves to meet certain fitness goals. Having such detailed logging tools related to one’s diet can potentially hurt them physically if they begin to starve themselves, or even mentally if they are unhappy with their current diet or develop any potential eating disorders. 

Another way users could be harmed is if they are unhappy with their current weight and body image the WatFit app could lead to them feeling more insecure. The body measurement tools and future weight projections from the app could make users who are overweight feel uncomfortable or accentuate their insecurities when they are given specific measurements related to their bodies. If they are putting a lot of effort into their fitness journey, and if the measurements they take of their body are underwhelming, or do not meet projections they may become discouraged or potentially feel bad about themselves. Overall, the measurement tool of the app can negatively impact the mental health and self-esteem of people who are insecure about the dimensions of their body, or their overall weight. 

Another way users could be negatively harmed is through the sharing feature within the app. This sharing feature could also potentially harm people who do not even use the app if they happen to see updates about other people’s fitness journeys. When someone shares their fitness report/ data with others this could potentially harm another person’s mental health or overall self-esteem. If a user shares their fitness report and they happen to have a more impressive physique, diet, or workout plan this could potentially make other people feel inadequate or depressed about their own fitness journey. Seeing results from another person’s fitness journey can be discouraging or demoralizing and can potentially lead to body dysmorphia and even eating disorders. Whether a user of the app sees someone’s shared fitness journey, or if somehow a non-user happens to see this information it could affect their mental health negatively. 

One crucial way this application could negatively impact its user population is if users are overly reliant on the app, and use it as a replacement for professional advice. Taking advice solely from the app to determine their diet, and exercise schedules could potentially lead to users sustaining an injury or potential adverse health effects, especially if the user has underlying health conditions. Every individual has different needs and limits, and ignoring professional advice from doctors, nutritionists, and personal trainers could negatively impact the user’s physical health. One example could be that the recommended diet from the app is insufficient for an anemic or diabetic user that is unaware of their current condition, negatively impacting their health. Another example could be that a user could get injured during their planned workout due to a previously obtained injury, or improper form due to a lack of guidance and supervision. The user population must still understand the importance of professional help while using this application. 

Children could also be negatively impacted as they could potentially be an unintended user population. Children could be subject to the same negative mental health impacts related to body image, bullying, and could develop an unhealthy relationship with food. Children who may use the app would also be more likely to sustain an injury during exercise without adequate parental supervision. 

The user population could also have their privacy breached if there are any security issues with the app, as the dietary logs and physical measurements of an individual are sensitive and private data. 

Finally, users who share their fitness journey could be potentially bullied online or made fun of for imperfections or flaws related to their physique or fitness journey in general. Much like the other users who could be harmed by this app, this population will face their mental health being potentially harmed. 
